communication by visual signals however
has one major limitation except in
completely open country they only work
at close range in forests sound signals
will travel much further so if a bird in
order to get enough food needs a very
large territory
it's likely to declare its territorial
claims with sound there are of course
many different ways of making a noise
and knocking on a resonant tree trunk is
one of them in this part of the world in
Patagonia on the southernmost tip of
South America two nuts on the tree trunk
has a very particular meaning at least
among birds I do it I might even get an
answer
it's imagine anak woodpecker one of the
largest of all were Becker's and he
thinks he's heard arrival
he comes in for a closer look
and here's his mate coming to support
him
now she joins in the dispute
he's now on my tree and his mate is even
closer
I've stopped
knocking so it seems to them that their
rival has disappeared so all is well
there's another drummer in the bird
world Australia's pawn cockatoo his beak
is no good as a drumstick so he uses a
wooden one and that noise too is made
mechanically by an African broad bill it
makes its call in the same sort of way
as children do when they blow across a
blade of grass but instead of grass the
broadbill has specially strengthened and
shaped wing feathers
[Music]